# Segments

Segments are the parts that make up the prompt. They can be added and removed in
any order. They are executed asynchronously so they cannot be dependent on other
segments.

## Creating your own segments
You can create your own segments by placing a file in:
```
   ${HOME}/.config/sbp/segments/${your_segment_name}.bash
```

This script should contain at least a function called
`segments::${your_segment_name}` and it will have the following variables
available upon execution:
```
  - COMMAND_EXIT_CODE, the exit code of the privous shell command
  - COMMAND_DURATION, the duration of the shell command
  - SBP_TMP, a tmp folder which is local to your shell PID and cleaned upon exit
  - SBP_CACHE, a cache folder which is global to all SBP processes
  - SBP_PATH, the path to the SBP diectory
  - SEGMENTS_MAX_LENGTH tells your segment how much space it should use. This is
  not a hard limit, but a suggestion for when to start trimming/compacting the
  segment.
```

When you have defined the parts you want to use in your segment you need to
theme the parts by issuing the following command:
```
  print_themed_segment 'normal/higlight' "${segment_pars[@]}"
```

## Configuration
All segments should adhere to the SEGMENTS_MAX_LENGTH variable, but you can set
SEGMENTS_${SEGMENT}_MAX_LENGTH to a specific value or -1 to disable
truncation/compacting for that specific segment.

## aws
  Shows the current active aws profile

## command
  shows the time spent on the last command, and turns red if it failed

## exit_code
  shows the value of the last exitcode

## git
  shows the git branch and current status, set ´SEGMENTS_GIT_BRANCH_ONLY=true´
  to speed up execution on large repos. The default value is ´false´.

## host
  shows the ${USER} and ${HOSTNAME} if you are logged in through ssh

## k8s
  shows the current user/cluster/project
  Setting ´SEGMENTS_K8S_DEFAULT_USER´ will hide the user if it's the default user
  Setting ´SEGMENTS_K8S_HIDE_CLUSTER´ to 1 will hide the cluster name. The
  default values are '' and 0 respectively.

## load
  shows the average load of the machine

## nix
  shows wether you are in a nix-shell or not

## path
  shows the current path

## path_ro
  shows a lock if current path is read only

## prompt_ready
 Shows a simple character before the end of the prompt

## python_env
  shows the virtual env settings for current folder

## rescuetime
  Shows Productivity score and logged time for the day. Requires
  ´RESCUETIME_API_KEY´ to be set in the environment

## timestamp
  shows a timestamp generated by date formatted by ´SEGMENTS_TIMESTAMP_FORMAT´,
  the default value is '%H:%M:%S' and the output is generated by the unix
  ´date´ command.

## wttr
  Shows the weather based on ´SEGMENTS_WTTR_LOCATION´ and
  ´SEGMENTS_WTTR_FORMAT´, the default values are ´Oslo´ and ´%p;%t;%w´
  respectively.
